---
title: "(*01/15/17*) Introducing the genome-scale metabolic model for S.elongatus iJB785"
classes: wide
tags: [publications]
category: posts
excerpt: "Manuscript introducing the metabolic model for the photoautotrophic S.elongatus published in PNAS recently written by myself, B.Rubin and J.Broddrick"
search: true    
---
### Unique attributes of cyanobacterial metabolism revealed by improved genome-scale metabolic modeling and essential gene analysis <br> 
Genome-scale models of metabolism are important tools for metabolic engineering and production strain development. In this paper we present an experimentally validated and manually curated model of metabolism in Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 that is special in a few ways:
1.  It lead to the discovery of unique metabolic characteristics such as the importance of a truncated, linear TCA pathway!
2.  It highlighted a poorly understood area of metabolism as exemplified by knowledge gaps in nucleotide salvage amount others! 
and
3.  It accurately quantifies light input and self-shading. - a first! 

This metabolic model can be used as a basis for metabolic design efforts in S. elongatus and should prove to be useful to the greater scientific community.

Broddrick JT¹ , Rubin BE¹, **Welkie DG**¹ , Du D, Mih N, Diamond S, Lee JJ, Golden SS, Palsson BO. Unique attributes of cyanobacterial metabolism revealed by improved genome-scale metabolic modeling and essential gene analysis. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 2016. Dec 113;51:E8344-E8353. ¹co-1st authorship <br/>  

Links to article: [Pubmed](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27911809){:target="_blank"}

Click here to see [PDF of paper](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1g8nSXTIxjOnFs6LV8sU_zyxZlm0jNWZj){: .btn .btn--success}{:target="_blank"}<br/>


Click here to     [go see other news items](/Blog/){: .btn .btn--primary} or [here to go back](/){: .btn .btn--primary}



